---
layout: post
title: Growth vs fixed mindsets
subtitle: Mindset by Dr. Carol Dweck 
cover-img: /assets/img/magness.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/magness.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/magness.jpg
tags: [mindset, personal_growth]
---

Last year at the beginning of summer, I was having a really hard time getting into the start of the tennis season. Not only was I ill-prepared for the tournaments that I had scheduled because I got a late start to the year studying for my AWS exams, but I was also having a hard time even enjoying playing for fun. I had a practice match scheduled the night before the start of the City Open tournament, and to say I was a wreck during the practice match would be an understatement. It was supposed to be a fun, yet competitive match to help me, and my partner prepare for the tournament, but instead it was a spectacle of me beating myself up and mentally unraveling.

When the practice match was over I went home and ruminated on the experience. I was so frustrated by the fact that this is something I'm supposed to be doing for fun. I *chose* to be here. I'm not going to reach a level of professional tennis, I'm not going to win any money, in fact, I'm *paying* to participate. So why am I not having any fun? I started looking on Reddit for recommendations on how to remedy this experience, and I saw a popular post about the book [Mindset](https://www.amazon.com/Mindset-Psychology-Carol-S-Dweck/dp/0345472322) by Dr. Carol Dweck. The next day I bought the book at Barnes and Noble and read it feverishly. 

As a young researcher, Dr. Dweck was interested in studying how people were affected by failure, so she conducted a study giving elementary age students math problems that were intentionally too hard for them. What she observed is that some students were motivated and energized by the challenge because they recognized this was an opportunity to learn something new and grow form the experience. Meanwhile, another group of students took their inability to solve the problems as an assault on their intelligence, and saw this as proof they were failures.

Based on this initial research, Dr. Dweck goes on to develop the concept of "Growth vs Fixed Mindsets". A growth mindset is the belief that with time and purposeful engagement, you have the ability to grow and cultivate skills. These skills can be intellectual skills, interpersonal skills, hobbies, business/ career related, parenting skills, etc. People who inhabit the grow mindset embrace change, learn from criticism, and persist in the face of setbacks. On the contrary, the fixed mindset is a belief system that your intelligence, and your abilities are fixed at a certain level. These beliefs put fixed mindset individuals in a position where they are constantly having to defend their intelligence and their abilities, so fixed mindset people have a tendency to ignore useful feedback, avoid seeking out challenges, and get defensive or give up easily. As Dr. Dweck puts it, it's like you're "always trying to convince yourself and others that you have a royal flush when you’re secretly worried it’s a pair of tens".

This concept of a "growth mindset" has become a colloquial term that gets tossed around a lot, especially in business. Everybody wants to exhibit traits of someone who has a growth mindset, myself included. The interesting thing I learned from reading "Mindset", is that we all contain a blend of both the growth and the fixed mindset. We all have different areas of our lives where we hold fixed mindset beliefs and growth mindset beliefs in others. The book talks about how the concoction of fixed and growth mindset beliefs we hold are things we have learned from childhood and life experiences we have had. I know for myself, I have a very growth-oriented mindest when it comes to things like learning something completely new, but I tend to have a lot less patience with myself and take on a fixed mindset when it comes to things that I think I should already be good at. Unwinding those beliefs and trying to re-orient them towards a growth mindset is a challenging process, but worthwhile and one that will lead to way more positive outcomes. When I've felt myself getting sucked back into a fixed mindset, I've tried to come back to my favorite quote in the book, which I think encapsulates the power of the growth mindset so perfectly:
>“Why waste time proving over and over how great you are, when you could be getting better? Why hide deficiencies instead of overcoming them? Why look for friends or partners who will just shore up your self-esteem instead of ones who will also challenge you to grow? And why seek out the tried and true, instead of experiences that will stretch you? The passion for stretching yourself and sticking to it, even (or especially) when it’s not going well, is the hallmark of the growth mindset. This is the mindset that allows people to thrive during some of the most challenging times in their lives.” 
